You have learned all the
basics of attention by now.
In fact, you could already
build a transformer from it.
But if you wanted to
work really well,
run fast and get
very good results,
you'll need one more thing,
the multi-head attention.
Let me show you what it is.
First, I will share with you
some intuition on
multi-head attention.
Afterwards, I will present you to
the scale dot-product and
concatenation, and
multi-head attention.
Then I'll show you the math
behind multi-head attention.
In a Multi-head attention,
each head uses individually
linear transformations
to represent words.
A single head works like this.
For instance, here you
have the word, I am happy.
Then you first need to calculate
the embedding and
you get a vector.
This can be linearly
transformed to get the queries,
matrix, the keys over here,
and then the values.
Also when you use a
multi-head attention,
a head can learn
different relationships
between words from another head.
So over here you have
N different heads,
over here you can see that's how
the heads are being concatenated,
and each one of these
will result in one head.
Let me show you how
multi-headed attention
achieves multiple
lookups in parallel.
The input to multi-head
attention again is a triple Q,
K, V. So query, key and value.
To achieve the multiple lookups,
you first use a fully-connected,
dense linear layer on each
query, key, and value.
This layer will create
the representations for
parallel attention heads.
Here, you split these
vectors into number of heads
and perform attention on them
as each head was different.
Then the result of
the attention will be
concatenated back together,
and put through a final
fully connected layer.
The scale dot-product
is the one used in
the dot-product attention model
except by the scale factor,
one over square root of DK.
DK is the key inquiry dimension.
It's normalization
prevents the gradients
from the function to be
extremely small when large
values of D sub K are used.
Now, let me show you how
this intuition looks in practice.
The inputs Q, K,
V are all of shape,
batch size, length by D model.
Usually D model is 512 or 1024.
Sometimes less or more
but of this order.
The linear layers acts
on the final dimension,
and change it to
N head by D head.
N heads is the number of
parallel attention heads,
often four, eight
or even 16 or more.
While D head is
the dimensionality of the
vector for each head,
very often 64 or 128.
So the linear layer creates
a set of N head vectors,
each of size D head.
To apply attention on
all heads in parallel,
you transpose the N
heads parts just after
the batch dimension so it
can be treated in the
same way as batch.
Separate heads just don't
interact with each other.
After this
transposition, you apply
the dot-product
attention you already
know in the same way as before.
Then the result is
reshaped and concatenated,
and transposed back to get
a matrix in size of N
heads times D head.
At the end, the final
dense layer mixes
different heads into a
joint representation.
To understand the math
behind multi-head attention,
let's see this
step-by-step explanation.
As any conventional
attention model,
you first need to create
the embedding of the input words.
Next, you calculate the queries,
keys and value matrices,
capital Q, capital K,
and capital V. This
is done by packing
all the embeddings into
a matrix for every head,
from one to H heads.
Then you train weight
matrices one per
head to obtain new
weighted queries,
keys and values as
capital W superscripts Q,
capital W superscript K
and capital W superscript
V. Note that the subscripts
I tells you that this
corresponds to the ith head.
With these weighted queries,
keys and value matrices,
you calculate the results matrix
capital Z subscript I
from I equals one to H,
where H is the number of heads.
Finally, by multiplying
by the outputs weight,
matrix capital W, superscript 0,
you obtain the output layer Z.
Now I'll show you how the
multi-head attention works.
A multi-headed model
jointly attends to
information from different
representations at
different positions over
the projected versions
of queries, keys, and values.
You have to apply the attention
function in parallel,
reaching different output values.
These output values are then
concatenated and weighted.
Then the multi-head attention
can be summarized
in this formula.
The multi-head of Q,
K and V equals to
the concatenation of
H subscript one all
the way to H subscript
H times W superscript 0.
So in this video, you learned
the benefits of
projecting queries, keys,
and values more than once,
since a head can learn
different relationships between
words from another head.
The alternative of
scaled dot-product
is of great importance
for multi-head attention,
especially when matrices
are very large.
The main beauty of
multi-headed attention is
it's ability to achieve
multiple lookups in parallel.
In the last three videos,
you learned about attention.
You know the basic
dot-product attention,
the causal one and
the multi-head one.
You're now ready to build
your own transformer decoder.
That's what we'll do
in the next video.